In this lesson, we have an independent work. It is necessary to make a selection of a pickup truck with ammunition.
This should be done by analogy with the previous lesson. Add a new sequence to the behavior tree,
which will consist of two tasks: 1 task - EQS for searching for ammunition
and 2 task - this is the movement to the found ammunition.
We also need to add a decorator that will determine whether our character needs ammunition.
It must have an additional property with the type of weapon that we want to check for full ammunition.
I recommend that you pause the video and try to implement this mechanic.
So, let's get down to the task.
First, let's place some additional pickups with our rockets on the scene.
Next, go to the EQS folder and copy FindHealthPickup (press Ctrl + W).
We name the new EQS: FindAmmoPickup.
Move the pawn that is testing the EQS closer to these pickups on the stage and change its template to FindAmmoPickup.
Open the EQS asset, change the SelectedActorClass in the generator, change it to STUAmmoPickup.
EQS search for ammunition is ready. It completely coincides with the search for a health pickup. The only difference is in the type of actor.
Next, let's start creating a decorator.
Go to the appropriate directory. We create a new class, inheriting from the decorator.
Name the new class STUNeedAmmoDecorator and create a class.
I added all the technical code to the decorator class in advance, included the necessary header files.
Created a constructor with the name of the node and also prepared the main function CalculateRawConditionalValue.
Go to the header file, start with the property of the weapon type. We need a forward declaration of the base weapon class.
And we create a property with the type of weapon that we want to check for completeness of ammunition.
Copy the UPROPERTY macro, paste it into the protected section.
Property will be of type TSubclassOf <STUBaseWeapon>.
We name the property - WeaponType.
Move to the .cpp file, to the CalculateRawConditionalValue function.
Let's get a pointer to the weapon component. If the pointer is nullptr, then exit the function.
If not, then we will use a still non-existent function that will check whether a
given type of weapon needs ammunition. We name the function NeedAmmo and pass the WeaponType to it.
The decorator code is ready, let's create the NeedAmmo function in the weapon component class.
Go to the STUWeaponComponent header file, the public section, and let's just copy the TryToAddAmmo function.
It has almost the same signature. Rename it to NeedAmmo and delete ClipAmount.
We go to the .cpp file, and also completely copy the body of the TryToAddAmmo function. We call it NeedAmmo.
We remove the second parameter. The logic of iterating over the array is absolutely the same: we check
whether the current element of the array is of a given type or not, and if we find the type of weapon we are interested in
, then we need to check whether it has a full ammunition load or not. To do this, you can use the
IsAmmoFull function and take the negation of the return value. The last thing to do is change
the access specifier of the IsAmmoFull function, which is located in the protected section of the BaseWeapon class.
Let's move it to the public section of the class. We compile the project.
First, let's go to the blueprint of AICharacter and make the launcher the first element in the array.
We swap the elements in the array.
Compile blueprint. Go to behavior tree.
Let's add a new sequence for finding ammunition. She will be the second priority after finding health.
Add a sequence node.
Run EQS.
Install the FindAmmoPickup template. Add task MoveTo.
And it remains to add our new decorator to the sequence. Right-click - Add Decorator. Find the NeedAmmo we created.
Specify STULauncherWeapon in the property WeaponType of the decorator.
We also set the property Observer aborts to self. The behavior tree is now complete. Let's check how everything works together.
Move the behavior tree to the right.
We start the game.
The NPC immediately fires a rocket, his ammunition is no longer full. And he picks up the ammo pickup. Our logic works.